on-composition.md, before:

# Some thoughts on writing

I, personally, find the following guidelines and methods useful and productive for
writing text and pouring thoughts onto digital medium. They may be naive or silly,
but it think it is worth documenting them here. By the way this text itself may not
follow them by the letter, but hopefully does not gravely violate them.


#### A recollection of what happened

I used to follow them, but then lost my way due to stress and personal issues and
forgot what it feels to actually `Feel` these principles. Luckily, such us the human
nature, that one Wednesday evening, feeling particularly down from the paper that
dragged on and on, i decided to force myself into not putting fragments, but complete
thoughts into the text. I began a new document and pushed myself into getting a hold
of my scattered ideas about composing text, they once again dawned onto me. I seem to
have rebounded.

Anyway, below are the guidelines, that strive for one goal: writing better quality
narrative in my academic/personal texts (not that many have been written so far, though).


## Avoid sentence/thought fragments

As soon as possible and not later, but always coalesce fragments into complete sentences
and/or coherent text fragments.

The train of thought is orders of magnitude faster than typing. Thus it is permitted
to write sentences/text out of order, skipping ahead to compose the ending or key phrases,
and backtracking afterwards to fill in the gaps. Place the pieces where ever they seem
to be relevant or belong in the tentative plan of the text.

Try to formulate what you want to write (at least crudely and partially) before actually
writing -- some planning and thought does ignite the mind and put you in the "flow".


## Fractal text structuring

The overall narrative follows the classic structure: from general to specific. We introduce
something, develop it, draw conclusions, and move on either by getting more specific, or
shifting focus onto the connected topic or related concept.

Paragraph contain one complete piece of though and their structure is the same: intro-main-outro,
-- with cohesive devices interspersed here and there to string them together. Paragraphs
themselves exist within this narration flow: some paragraphs introduce, other relay ideas
concepts and the rest summarize or draw conclusion from the narrative in the former.


## The text is malleable material

Writing text can benefit from programming styles and techniques. Adopt modular hierarchical
treatment of sentences, paragraphs, and sections. Top-down writing style works wonders: begin
with coarse plan, then progressively refine its element and ultimately being coalescing the
letters into words into phrases, into sentences, into paragraphs and sections.

Always try to come up with synonyms when writing sentences -- this increases variety,
and broadens the perspective.

Commit message:

noted possibility of using native language as prototyping for composing

on-composition.md, after:

# Some thoughts on writing

I, personally, find the following guidelines and methods useful and productive for
writing text and pouring thoughts onto digital medium. They may be naive or silly,
but it think it is worth documenting them here. By the way this text itself may not
follow them by the letter, but hopefully does not gravely violate them.


#### A recollection of what happened

I used to follow them, but then lost my way due to stress and personal issues and
forgot what it feels to actually `Feel` these principles. Luckily, such us the human
nature, that one Wednesday evening, feeling particularly down from the paper that
dragged on and on, i decided to force myself into not putting fragments, but complete
thoughts into the text. I began a new document and pushed myself into getting a hold
of my scattered ideas about composing text, they once again dawned onto me. I seem to
have rebounded.

Anyway, below are the guidelines, that strive for one goal: writing better quality
narrative in my academic/personal texts (not that many have been written so far, though).


## Avoid sentence/thought fragments

As soon as possible and not later, but always coalesce fragments into complete sentences
and/or coherent text fragments.

The train of thought is orders of magnitude faster than typing. Thus it is permitted
to write sentences/text out of order, skipping ahead to compose the ending or key phrases,
and backtracking afterwards to fill in the gaps. Place the pieces where ever they seem
to be relevant or belong in the tentative plan of the text.

Try to formulate what you want to write (at least crudely and partially) before actually
writing -- some planning and thought does ignite the mind and put you in the "flow".
It is not forbidden to type and design a sentence in Russian (native language), before
actually translating it to English.


## Fractal text structuring

The overall narrative follows the classic structure: from general to specific. We introduce
something, develop it, draw conclusions, and move on either by getting more specific, or
shifting focus onto the connected topic or related concept.

Paragraph contain one complete piece of though and their structure is the same: intro-main-outro,
-- with cohesive devices interspersed here and there to string them together. Paragraphs
themselves exist within this narration flow: some paragraphs introduce, other relay ideas
concepts and the rest summarize or draw conclusion from the narrative in the former.


## The text is malleable material

Writing text can benefit from programming styles and techniques. Adopt modular hierarchical
treatment of sentences, paragraphs, and sections. Top-down writing style works wonders: begin
with coarse plan, then progressively refine its element and ultimately being coalescing the
letters into words into phrases, into sentences, into paragraphs and sections.

Always try to come up with synonyms when writing sentences -- this increases variety,
and broadens the perspective.
